README.md, before:

# [ReScript](https://rescript-lang.org)

The compiler for ReScript.

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/bs-platform.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/bs-platform) ![Build Status](https://circleci.com/gh/rescript-lang/rescript-compiler.svg?style=svg)

## Documentation

Please see the [documentation site](https://rescript-lang.org).

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to the [OCaml](https://ocaml.org) team, obviously, without such a beautiful yet practical language, this backend would not exist
* Thanks to [ninja-build](https://ninja-build.org), ReScript also comes with a blazing fast build tool on top of it, `ninja` is a truly [well engineered](http://aosabook.org/en/posa/ninja.html) scalable build tool
* Thanks to [Bloomberg](https://www.techatbloomberg.com) and [Facebook](https://github.com/facebook/). This project began at Bloomberg and was published in 2016; without the support of Bloomberg, it would not have happened. This project's funded by Facebook since July/2017

## [Roadmap](https://github.com/rescript-lang/rescript-compiler/wiki)

## Licensing

See [COPYING](./COPYING) and [COPYING.LESSER](./COPYING.LESSER)

The [`ocaml`](ocaml) directory contains the official [OCaml](https://ocaml.org) compiler (version 4.06.1).
Refer to its copyright and license notices for information about its licensing.

The `vendor/ninja.tar.gz` contains the vendored [ninja](https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja).
Refer to its copyright and license notices for information about its licensing.

See [Credits](./Credits.md) for more details.

Commit message:

add a history note (#5046)
* add a history

* tweak

README.md, after:

# [ReScript](https://rescript-lang.org)

The compiler for ReScript.

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/bs-platform.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/bs-platform) ![Build Status](https://circleci.com/gh/rescript-lang/rescript-compiler.svg?style=svg)

## Documentation

Please see the [documentation site](https://rescript-lang.org).

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to the [OCaml](https://ocaml.org) team, obviously, without such a beautiful yet practical language, this backend would not exist
* Thanks to [ninja-build](https://ninja-build.org), ReScript also comes with a blazing fast build tool on top of it, `ninja` is a truly [well engineered](http://aosabook.org/en/posa/ninja.html) scalable build tool
* Thanks to [Bloomberg](https://www.techatbloomberg.com) and [Facebook](https://github.com/facebook/). This project began at Bloomberg and was published in 2016; without the support of Bloomberg, it would not have happened. This project's funded by Facebook since July/2017

## [Roadmap](https://github.com/rescript-lang/rescript-compiler/wiki)

## Licensing

See [COPYING](./COPYING) and [COPYING.LESSER](./COPYING.LESSER)

The [`ocaml`](ocaml) directory contains the official [OCaml](https://ocaml.org) compiler (version 4.06.1).
Refer to its copyright and license notices for information about its licensing.

The `vendor/ninja.tar.gz` contains the vendored [ninja](https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja).
Refer to its copyright and license notices for information about its licensing.

Note that OSS is for sharing of knowledge, but the authorship should be respected. Copyright headers in each file, Acknowledgements section in this file and [History](./History.md) should be kept **intact**.

See [Credits](./Credits.md) for more details.
