jscomp/bsb/templates/react-hooks/README.md, before:

# ReasonReact Template & Examples

This is:
- A template for your new ReasonReact project.
- A collection of thin examples illustrating ReasonReact usage.
- Extra helper documentation for ReasonReact (full ReasonReact docs [here](https://reasonml.github.io/reason-react/)).

`src` contains 4 sub-folders, each an independent, self-contained ReasonReact example. Feel free to delete any of them and shape this into your project! This template's more malleable than you might be used to =).

The point of this template and examples is to let you understand and personally tweak the entirely of it. We **don't** give you an opaque, elaborate mega build setup just to put some boxes on the screen. It strikes to stay transparent, learnable, and simple. You're encouraged to read every file; it's a great feeling, having the full picture of what you're using and being able to touch any part.

## Run

```sh
npm install
npm run server
# in a new tab
npm start
```

Open a new web page to `http://localhost:8000/`. Change any `.re` file in `src` to see the page auto-reload. **You don't need any bundler when you're developing**!

**How come we don't need any bundler during development**? We highly encourage you to open up `index.html` to check for yourself!

# Features Used

|                           | Blinking Greeting | Reducer from ReactJS Docs | Fetch Dog Pictures | Reason Using JS Using Reason |
|---------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|--------------------|------------------------------|
| No props                  |                   | ✓                         |                    |                              |
| Has props                 |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| Children props            | ✓                 |                           |                    |                              |
| No state                  |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| Has state                 | ✓                 |                           |  ✓                 |                              |
| Has state with useReducer |                   | ✓                         |                    |                              |
| ReasonReact using ReactJS |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| ReactJS using ReasonReact |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| useEffect                 | ✓                 |                           |  ✓                 |                              |
| Dom attribute             | ✓                 | ✓                         |                    | ✓                            |
| Styling                   | ✓                 | ✓                         |  ✓                 | ✓                            |
| React.array               |                   |                           |  ✓                 |                              |

# Bundle for Production

We've included a convenience `UNUSED_webpack.config.js`, in case you want to ship your project to production. You can rename and/or remove that in favor of other bundlers, e.g. Rollup.

We've also provided a barebone `indexProduction.html`, to serve your bundle.

```sh
npm install webpack webpack-cli
# rename file
mv UNUSED_webpack.config.js webpack.config.js
# call webpack to bundle for production
./node_modules/.bin/webpack
open indexProduction.html
```

Commit message:

add --spa flag explaination to hooks template

jscomp/bsb/templates/react-hooks/README.md, after:

# ReasonReact Template & Examples

This is:
- A template for your new ReasonReact project.
- A collection of thin examples illustrating ReasonReact usage.
- Extra helper documentation for ReasonReact (full ReasonReact docs [here](https://reasonml.github.io/reason-react/)).

`src` contains 4 sub-folders, each an independent, self-contained ReasonReact example. Feel free to delete any of them and shape this into your project! This template's more malleable than you might be used to =).

The point of this template and examples is to let you understand and personally tweak the entirely of it. We **don't** give you an opaque, elaborate mega build setup just to put some boxes on the screen. It strikes to stay transparent, learnable, and simple. You're encouraged to read every file; it's a great feeling, having the full picture of what you're using and being able to touch any part.

## Run

```sh
npm install
npm run server
# in a new tab
npm start
```

Open a new web page to `http://localhost:8000/`. Change any `.re` file in `src` to see the page auto-reload. **You don't need any bundler when you're developing**!

**How come we don't need any bundler during development**? We highly encourage you to open up `index.html` to check for yourself!

If you start handling routes via `ReasonReactRouter` change the server script in package.json to `moduleserve ./ --port 8000 --spa` to make sure your routes don't result in a 404 not found error. With the added `--spa` flag your routes will return the index.html on page load and you can handle them client-side.

# Features Used

|                           | Blinking Greeting | Reducer from ReactJS Docs | Fetch Dog Pictures | Reason Using JS Using Reason |
|---------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|--------------------|------------------------------|
| No props                  |                   | ✓                         |                    |                              |
| Has props                 |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| Children props            | ✓                 |                           |                    |                              |
| No state                  |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| Has state                 | ✓                 |                           |  ✓                 |                              |
| Has state with useReducer |                   | ✓                         |                    |                              |
| ReasonReact using ReactJS |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| ReactJS using ReasonReact |                   |                           |                    | ✓                            |
| useEffect                 | ✓                 |                           |  ✓                 |                              |
| Dom attribute             | ✓                 | ✓                         |                    | ✓                            |
| Styling                   | ✓                 | ✓                         |  ✓                 | ✓                            |
| React.array               |                   |                           |  ✓                 |                              |

# Bundle for Production

We've included a convenience `UNUSED_webpack.config.js`, in case you want to ship your project to production. You can rename and/or remove that in favor of other bundlers, e.g. Rollup.

We've also provided a barebone `indexProduction.html`, to serve your bundle.

```sh
npm install webpack webpack-cli
# rename file
mv UNUSED_webpack.config.js webpack.config.js
# call webpack to bundle for production
./node_modules/.bin/webpack
open indexProduction.html
```
