syntax/README.md, before:

# ReScript Syntax ![Tests](https://github.com/rescript-lang/syntax/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

Blog post: https://rescript-lang.org/blog/bucklescript-8-1-new-syntax

Documentation: https://rescript-lang.org/docs/manual/latest/overview

This repo is the source of truth for the ReScript parser & printer. Issues go here.

**You don't need this repo to use the ReScript syntax**. This comes with BuckleScript 8.1. This repo is for syntax contributors.

## Contribute

### Why

A detailed discussion by Jonathan Blow and Casey Muratori on why you would hand-roll a parser for a production quality programming language
[Discussion: Making Programming Language Parsers, etc](https://youtu.be/MnctEW1oL-E)

"One reason why I switched off these parser tools is that the promises didn't really materialize.
The amount of work that I had to do change a yacc script from one language to a variant of that language
was more than if I hand wrote the code myself.
"
J. Blow.

### Setup & Usage

Currently for devs only.

Required:
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
- Ocaml 4.06.1
- OS: Mac

```sh
opam switch create 4.06.1 && eval $(opam env)
git clone https://github.com/rescript-lang/syntax.git
cd syntax
npm install
make # or: make -j9 for faster build
```

This will produce the final binary `lib/rescript.exe` used for testing

First build is super slow because we're also building our vendored `refmt` (only used for the conversion tool). Subsequent builds should be <2s. If not, please file an issue (build speed is a priority).

We only build production binary, even in dev mode. No need for a separate dev binary when the build is fast enough. Plus, this encourages proper benchmarking of the (production) binary each diff.

After you make a change:
```sh
make
```

Run the core tests:
```sh
make test
```

Run the extended tests:
```sh
make roundtrip-test
```

Update jest snapshots:
```sh
./node_modules/.bin/jest -u
```

Debug a file:
```sh
# write code in test.res
./lib/rescript.exe test.res # test printer
./lib/rescript.exe -print ast test.res # print ast
./lib/rescript.exe -print ml test.res # show ocaml code
./lib/rescript.exe -print res -width 80 test.res # test printer and change default print width
```

Benchmark:
```sh
make bench
```

### Development Docs

`src/syntax` contains all the source code. Don't change folder structure without notice; BuckleScript uses this repo as a submodule and assumes `src/syntax`.

### Example File Conversion

In a random project of yours:

```sh
node_modules/.bin/bsrefmt --print=binary myFile.re | your/path/to/rescript.exe -parse reasonBinary -print ns > myFile.res
node_modules/.bin/bsrefmt --print=binary --interface=true myFile.rei | your/path/to/rescript.exe -parse reasonBinary -print ns -interface > myFile.resi
mv myFile.re myFile.re.backup # random backup name. Could be anything
```

### Example API usage

```
module Parser = ResCore.Parser
module Diagnostics = ResCore.Diagnostics

let filename = "foo.res"
let src = FS.readFile filename

let p =
  (* intended for ocaml compiler *)
  let mode = Parser.ParseForTypeChecker in
  (* if you want to target the printer use: let mode = Parser.Default in*)
  Parser.make ~mode src filename

let structure = ResParser.parseImplementation p
let signature = ResParser.parseInterface p

let () = match p.Parser.diagnostics with
| [] -> () (* no problems *)
| diagnostics -> (* parser contains problems *)
  prerr_string (
    Diagnostics.stringOfReport
      ~style:Diagnostics.Pretty
      diagnostics src
  )
```

Commit message:

Enable stack trace for binary; remove an `exit 1`
This makes the perf slightly slower (but basically unnoticeable), and the compilation slower, but this repo's files are compiled with stack trace enabled inside the compiler project anyway, so this is more realistic.

On the other hand, having a general try catch in res_cli that swallowed important exceptions such as `String.sub` and `Array.get` would have made debugging much harder.

syntax/README.md, after:

# ReScript Syntax ![Tests](https://github.com/rescript-lang/syntax/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

Blog post: https://rescript-lang.org/blog/bucklescript-8-1-new-syntax

Documentation: https://rescript-lang.org/docs/manual/latest/overview

This repo is the source of truth for the ReScript parser & printer. Issues go here.

**You don't need this repo to use the ReScript syntax**. This comes with BuckleScript 8.1. This repo is for syntax contributors.

## Contribute

### Why

A detailed discussion by Jonathan Blow and Casey Muratori on why you would hand-roll a parser for a production quality programming language
[Discussion: Making Programming Language Parsers, etc](https://youtu.be/MnctEW1oL-E)

"One reason why I switched off these parser tools is that the promises didn't really materialize.
The amount of work that I had to do change a yacc script from one language to a variant of that language
was more than if I hand wrote the code myself.
"
J. Blow.

### Setup & Usage (For Repo Devs Only)

Required:
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
- Ocaml 4.06.1
- OS: Mac

```sh
opam switch create 4.06.1 && eval $(opam env)
git clone https://github.com/rescript-lang/syntax.git
cd syntax
npm install
make # or: make -j9 for faster build
```

This will produce the final binary `lib/rescript.exe` used for testing.

First build is super slow because we're also building our vendored `refmt` (only used for the conversion tool). Subsequent builds should be <2s. If not, please file an issue (build speed is a priority).

We only build production binary, even in dev mode. No need for a separate dev binary when the build is fast enough. Plus, this encourages proper benchmarking of the (production) binary each diff.

After you make a change:
```sh
make
```

Run the core tests:
```sh
make test
```

Run the extended tests:
```sh
make roundtrip-test
```

Update jest snapshots:
```sh
./node_modules/.bin/jest -u
```

Debug a file:
```sh
# write code in test.res
./lib/rescript.exe test.res # test printer
./lib/rescript.exe -print ast test.res # print ast
./lib/rescript.exe -print ml test.res # show ocaml code
./lib/rescript.exe -print res -width 80 test.res # test printer and change default print width
```

Benchmark:
```sh
make bench
```

Enable stack trace:
```sh
# Before you run the binary
export OCAMLRUNPARAM="b"
```

This is likely a known knowledge: add the above line into your shell rc file so that every shell startup you have OCaml stack trace enabled.

### Development Docs

`src/syntax` contains all the source code. Don't change folder structure without notice; BuckleScript uses this repo as a submodule and assumes `src/syntax`.

### Example File Conversion

In a random project of yours:

```sh
node_modules/.bin/bsrefmt --print=binary myFile.re | your/path/to/rescript.exe -parse reasonBinary -print ns > myFile.res
node_modules/.bin/bsrefmt --print=binary --interface=true myFile.rei | your/path/to/rescript.exe -parse reasonBinary -print ns -interface > myFile.resi
mv myFile.re myFile.re.backup # random backup name. Could be anything
```

### Example API usage

```
module Parser = ResCore.Parser
module Diagnostics = ResCore.Diagnostics

let filename = "foo.res"
let src = FS.readFile filename

let p =
  (* intended for ocaml compiler *)
  let mode = Parser.ParseForTypeChecker in
  (* if you want to target the printer use: let mode = Parser.Default in*)
  Parser.make ~mode src filename

let structure = ResParser.parseImplementation p
let signature = ResParser.parseInterface p

let () = match p.Parser.diagnostics with
| [] -> () (* no problems *)
| diagnostics -> (* parser contains problems *)
  prerr_string (
    Diagnostics.stringOfReport
      ~style:Diagnostics.Pretty
      diagnostics src
  )
```
